{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title #Provides a space for you to type a name for the new connection}{\author Mike Thompson}{\operator Build Machine}{\creatim\yr1998\mo7\dy2\hr10\min44}{\revtim\yr1998\mo7\dy2\hr10\min44}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages68}{\nofwords768}{\nofchars4380}{\*\company Hilgraeve Inc.}{\nofcharsws5378}{\vern71}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\template C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Office\\Templates\\RoboHELP.dot}\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWCONN_NAME}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space for you to type a name for the new connection. 
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWCONN_ICON}}}{\cgrid0 Shows icons you can use for the new connection.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_COUNTRY}}}{\cgrid0 Lists country code prefixes for telephone numbers in foreign countries.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_AREA}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space for you to type an area code.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_NUMBER}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space for you to type the phone number to dial.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_DEVICE}}}{\cgrid0 Lists the connection types set up to work with your computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_CONFIGURE}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to display information about your modem.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_MODIFY}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to change information about the phone number.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_EDITNEW}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to change a location entry or add a new one to the list.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_LOCATION}}}{\cgrid0 Lists location entries. To edit a location entry, click Dialing Properties.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_DIAL}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to dial the phone number.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_OPEN}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to open HyperTerminal without calling another computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_PHONENUMBER}}}{\cgrid0 Shows the phone number you are about to dial. To dial the number, click Dial. To choose a different 
\par number, click Modify.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_DIAL_CALLING_CARD}}}{\cgrid0 Shows the calling card HyperTerminal will use to dial this call. To change the calling card, click Dialing Properties.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_PHONEPROP_CHANGEICON}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to assign a new icon to this connection.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_SOUND}}}{\cgrid0 Causes your computer to beep when connecting or disconnecting.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_BACKSCROLL}}}{\cgrid0 Determines the number of lines you can see by scrolling backward using the page up key.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_EMULATION}}}{\cgrid0 Lists terminal types that HyperTerminal can emulate.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_USEKEYS}}}{\cgrid0 Determines whether function, arrow, and control keys are used for tasks in Windows or are transmitted to the remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_TERMSET}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to set options for the selected type of terminal emulation.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_ASCIISET}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to set options for the transfer of ASCII text files.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_MODES}}}{\cgrid0 Determines the features of your terminal.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_KEYPADMODE}}}{\cgrid0 Determines whether the keypad sends application codes that control programs running on the host computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_CURSORMODE}}}{\cgrid0 Determines whether arrow keys send normal codes (which move the cursor) or application codes.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_132COLUMNS}}}{\cgrid0 Divides your window into 132 columns instead of 80.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_CURSOR}}}{\cgrid0 Determines the appearance of the cursor in the terminal window.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_DESTRUCTIVE}}}{\cgrid0 Determines whether your backspace key deletes characters.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_ALTMODE}}}{\cgrid0 Determines whether the keypad sends application codes that control programs running on the host computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_CHARSETS}}}{\cgrid0 Lists the character sets you can use.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_SENDING}}}{\cgrid0 Determines how ASCII characters are sent to the remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_SEND_LINE}}}{\cgrid0 Sends a carriage return to the remote computer every time you complete a line.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_SEND_ECHO}}}{\cgrid0 Displays every character you type before it is sent to the remote computer. 
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_RECEIVING}}}{\cgrid0 Determines how ASCII characters are received from the remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_REC_APPEND}}}{\cgrid0 Inserts a carriage return at the end of every line you receive from a remote computer. 
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_REC_FORCE}}}{\cgrid0 Translates 8-bit characters to 7-bit ASCII.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_REC_WRAP}}}{\cgrid0 Prints excess characters on the next line if a remote computer sends a line of text that is longer than the width of your window. 
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_RECEIVE_DIRECTORY}}}{\cgrid0 Lists folders on your computer where you can save files you transfer from the remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_RECEIVE_PROTOCOL}}}{\cgrid0 Lists protocols you can use when transferring files to your computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SEND_FILENAME}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space for you to type the name of the file you want to send to the remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SEND_PROTOCOL}}}{\cgrid0 Lists protocols you can use when sending files to a remote computer.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SEND_SEND}}}{\cgrid0 Transfers the specified file.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_CAPT_FILENAME}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space for you to type a name for the capture file.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_CAPT_DIRECTORY}}}{\cgrid0 Displays the folder in which the capture file is stored.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_BROWSE}}}{\cgrid0 Click this to browse through folders to find the file or folder you want.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_HOSTADDRESS}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space to type the telnet address of the Host you wish to connect to.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_PORTNUMBER}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space to type the port number to use when connecting to the Host.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_NEWPHONE_REDIAL}}}{\cgrid0 Check this box to redial automatically when your modem encounters a busy signal.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TELNETCK_STOP_ASKING}}}{\cgrid0 Check this box to prevent this dialog from displaying each time you start HyperTerminal if you choose 'No'.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TELNETCK_YES}}}{\cgrid0 Choose 'Yes' if you want HyperTerminal to be used as the default telnet application.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TELNETCK_NO}}}{\cgrid0 Choose 'No' if you do not want HyperTerminal to be the default telnet application. If you do not check the 'Stop asking me...' checkbox, this dialog will be displayed each time you start HyperTerminal.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_TELNETID}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space to define the string HyperTerminal sends in response to the terminal type query from a telnet host.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_BACKSPACE}}}{\cgrid0 Select one of the three radio buttons to specify what HyperTerminal sends the remote system each time you press the Backspace key.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_CTRLH}}}{\cgrid0 Tells HyperTerminal to send the value associated with Ctrl+H \emdash  ASCII backspace (08H) each time you press the Backspace key.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_DEL}}}{\cgrid0 Tells HyperTerminal to send the ect one of the value associated with Delete (7FH) each time you press the Backspace key.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_CTRLH2}}}{\cgrid0 Tells HyperTerminal to end an ASCII backspace, replace the character at that position with a space character, and backspace again each time you press the Backspace key. This provides a destructive backspace for systems that provide only a nondestructive backspace.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_LINE_DELAY}}}{\cgrid0 Allows you to define how long in milliseconds HyperTerminal waits before sending each line.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_ASCII_CHAR_DELAY}}}{\cgrid0 Allows you to define how long in milliseconds HyperTerminal waits before sending each character.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_EXIT}}}{\cgrid0 Tells HyperTerminal to exit after changing from a connected to a disconnected state.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_EF_KEYS_KEYNAME}}}{\cgrid0 Displays the key assigned to this macro.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_ML_KEYS_MACRO}}}{\cgrid0 Provides a space to type in the macro you want this key to send.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_LB_KEYS_KEYLIST}}}{\cgrid0 Displays a list of all key macros.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_PB_KEYS_MODIFY}}}{\cgrid0 Changes an existing key macro.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_PB_KEYS_NEW}}}{\cgrid0 Creates a new key macro.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_PB_KEYS_DELETE}}}{\cgrid0 Deletes an existing key macro.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_SETTING_COLOR}}}{\cgrid0 Allows selection of foreground and background terminal colors.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_COLOR_PREVIEW}}}{\cgrid0 Displays a preview of the selected colors.
\par \page }{\cs16\super\cgrid0 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cs16\super #}{ }{\cf6\cgrid0 IDH_TERM_EMUSET_ROWSANDCOLS}}}{\cgrid0 Allows you to define terminal dimensions.
\par \page 
\par }}