./" My first man page for ReactOS  :)
.TH ReactOS manual project 2004

.SH NAME
man.exe - manual browser for ReactOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man [
.I manual page
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This project is UNIX(tm) man compatible tool for ReactOS.
.NL
Manual browser support next tags:
.NL
.I ./"
as comment tag
.NL
.I .NL
as "new line" tag (ReactOS only)
.NL
.I .B
  as "bold" tag
.NL
.I .I
  as "italic" tag
.NL
.I .SH
 as part tag
.NL
.I .TH
 as page descriptor
.NL
.SH OPTIONS
At this moment man support only
.B "/?, /h, -h, --help"
arguments :)
.SH FILES
Now all of manual pages must be in
.B c:\man\
directory. This is hack or
bug, i don't know... We planed use ENVIRONMENT
varrible to set manual path.
.NL
Manual files should have extension which marks section of his content.
.NL
.SH SECTIONS
.B (1)
basic commands. (dir,del,man,etc...)
.NL
.B (2)
kernel calls
.NL
.B (3)
calls from system librares
.NL
.B (4)
device files or devices
.NL
.B (5)
file syntax description
.NL
.B (6)
games
.NL
.B (7)
different information (such as licences, manifestos, etc...)
.NL
.B (8)
administration tools (Admin or root only)
.NL
.B (9)
additional kernel information
.NL

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Comming soon
.SH BUGS
Heh... A lot of. For example:
.NL
.I Scroll-bug
man can't correctly scroll screen
.NL
.I .NL hack
tag who absent in original man
.NL
.I ./" hack
at the end of man file must be ./" tag
.NL
.I putchar() method
all text displays with putchar() function.
.NL
 And we have non correct word carry.

.SH AUTHOR
Semyon <tappak> Novikov
.NL
.I <tappak@freemail.ru>
.NL
Sorry for my English. I'm just a Russian first-year student.
./"