\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename psmgr.info
@settitle Process Manager Design and Implementation
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
This document describes the ReactOS process manager design and implementation
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title Process Manager Design and Implementation
@author David Welch <david.welch@seh.ox.ac.uk>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1999 David Welch
@end titlepage

@node Top, Overview, , (dir)
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@ifinfo
This document describes the design and implementation of the reactos process 
manager
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Overview:: Overview of this document
* External Interfaces:: External Interfaces
* Data Structures:: Data Structures
* Concept Index:: This index has two entries
@end menu

@node Overview, External Interfaces, top, top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter Overview

This document describes the design and implementation of the ReactOS process 
manager. ReactOS is a GPLed operating system that attempts to be compatible 
with Windows NT, for more information see @uref{http://www.reactos.com}.

@node External Interfaces, Data Structures, Overview, top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter External Interfaces

This chapter describes the external interfaces provided by the process
manager both to user-mode and to the rest of the kernel.

@menu
* NtCreateProcess:: Creates a new process
@end menu

@node NtCreateProcess, , , External Interfaces
@comment node-name, next, previous, up

@deftypefn Function NTSTATUS NtCreateProcess

The parameters are
@itemize @bullet
@item
HANDLE ProcessHandle: Received a handle for the created process on return.
@item
ACCESS_MASK DesiredAccess: Specifies the requested types of access to
the created process.
@item
POBJECT_ATTRIBUTES ObjectAttributes: Specifies various attributes for the
created process.
@item
HANDLE ParentProcessHandle: Specifies the parent process for the created
process.
@item
BOOLEAN InheritObjectTable: True if the new process such inherit its parent's
handles.
@item
HANDLE SectionHandle: If this parameter is NULL then the new process's
address space will be a copy of its parent's. Otherwise the new process's
address space will contain a mapping of the section pointed to by this
handle and NTDLL.
@item
HANDLE DebugPort: Specifies a handle that will receive debug messages
associated with this process.
@item
HANDLE ExceptionPort: Specifies a handle that will receive exception messages
associated with this process.
@end itemize

The return value is either STATUS_SUCCESS or a value indicating the reason
by failure.
@end deftypefn

@node Data Structures, Concept Index, External Interfaces, top
@comment node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter Data Structures

@node Concept Index, ,Data Structures, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp
@contents
@bye
