{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Authorized Gateway 2000 Licensee}{\creatim\yr1998\mo8\dy3\hr9\min34}{\version1}{\edmins29}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16433}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0 \pard\plain \qc \fs20\lang1033 {\f2\fs32\ul\cf9 HyperTerminal Private Edition}{\i\fs32\cf9 
\par }{\fs22\cf9 
\par }\pard {\fs22\cf1 
HyperTerminal Private Edition is a more powerful version of HyperTerminal, our program that Microsoft includes with Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows NT 4.0. HyperTerminal PE is provided free for personal use. To see if you are eligible to use it free, 
}{\fs22\cf1 please review the License Agreement in the ReadMe file. If you have no web browser, use the WordPad ReadMe file.}{\fs22\cf1 
\par }{\fs22\cf1 
\par }{\fs22\cf1 Business users may evaluate }{\fs22 
this product for a period of 90 days. If you wish to continue using it, you can purchase a single-user license for $19.95 by clicking the Purchase Private Edition icon in the program's folder. For site licenses or customized versions, contact sales@hilgra
}{\fs22 eve.com.}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 If you need capabilities beyond HyperTerminal Private Edition, try our award-winning, full-featured program HyperACCESS. It has a similar look and feel, but offers these and many other advantages:}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs22 SYMBOL 183 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10 \\h}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs22  }{\fs22 Man}{\fs22 y additi}{\fs22 onal terminal emulators and file transfer protocols}{\fs22 
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs22 SYMBOL 183 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10 \\h}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs22  }{\fs22 Record}{\fs22  and }{\fs22 play back logons and repetitive steps with VBS (Visual Basic Script)}{\fs22 
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs22 SYMBOL 183 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10 \\h}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs22  }{\fs22 Redefine keys and add your own buttons to the toolbar with text or bitmap labels}{\fs22 
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs22 SYMBOL 183 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10 \\h}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs22  }{\fs22 Automate communications with Visual Basic, VBA, C++, or other languages}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 To learn more (including how to get HyperACCESS or a FREE 30-day trial) see the ReadMe. You can get it from many software retailers or directly from us for about $50. For more about HyperACCESS and our other products, please visit our web site, }
{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst ref {\fs22  HYPERLINK http://www.hilgraeve.com }}{\fldrslt {\fs22\ul\cf2 http://www.hilgraeve.com}}}{\fs22 , or send e-mail to sales@hilgraeve.com.}
\par }